.TH SALYUT 7 "2026-07-20" "salyut.one" "Miscellaneous Information Manual"
.SH NAME
salyut \- introduction to the salyut.one pubnix
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B salyut.one
is an all-purpose, small, tilde-adjacent pubnix running Fedora 44.
An account includes shell access, local and Internet e-mail, static web
hosting, Unix user lookup, and access to the Bulletin Board System.
.PP
This page is the starting point for those services.
Service announcements and maintenance notices are published on the
.B Updates
board in the BBS.
.SH SHELL ACCESS
Connect using the Unix username and SSH key registered for the account:
.PP
.RS
.EX
ssh username@salyut.one
.EE
.RE
.PP
Normal Unix manual pages are available with
.BR man (1).
For help with a command, try
.B man
followed by its name.
.SH COMMUNICATION
Use
.BR write (1)
to talk to another logged-in user:
.PP
.RS
.EX
write username
.EE
.RE
.PP
Use
.BR mesg (1)
to allow or reject incoming
.B write
requests.
Local e-mail remains available when the recipient is offline.
.SH E-MAIL
Every user has an e-mail address at
.IR username@salyut.one .
Run
.BR neomutt (1)
to read and send mail from the shell, or configure a personal mail client
using the account details supplied when the account was created.
.PP
To redirect new mail to another address, create
.I ~/.forward
containing the destination:
.PP
.RS
.EX
you@example.net
.EE
.RE
.PP
To keep a local copy as well, list the local username with a leading
backslash, followed by the destination:
.PP
.RS
.EX
\\username, you@example.net
.EE
.RE
.PP
Replace
.I username
with the account's Unix username.
The file must be owned by the account and must not be writable by other users.
Run
.B chmod 600 ~/.forward
after editing it.
Remove
.I ~/.forward
to stop forwarding.
.SH STATIC WEB HOSTING
Files in the account's
.I public_html
directory are published at:
.PP
.RS
.EX
https://salyut.one/~username/
.EE
.RE
.PP
The public user directory is available at
.UR https://salyut.one/users
.UE .
.SH USER LOOKUP
View compact information about a local Unix user with:
.PP
.RS
.EX
pinky -lb username
.EE
.RE
.PP
The read-only web view is available at
.UR https://salyut.one/now
.UE .
.SH BULLETIN BOARD SYSTEM
Run
.B bbs
to read and post from the terminal.
The BBS contains General discussion, service Updates, and Proposals about
changes to salyut.one.
.PP
Use the bracket keys to change boards,
.B j
and
.B k
to move, and Enter to read.
Press
.B n
to create a thread,
.B a
to reply, and
.B v
while reading a proposal to vote.
The client displays its complete key reference in the interface.
.PP
Create a General or Updates thread by sending a plain-text message to
.I general@bbs.salyut.one
or
.IR updates@bbs.salyut.one .
When using the Salyut outgoing server, authenticate with the Unix account.
Mail sent through another provider is attributed to the one eligible Unix
account whose
.I ~/.forward
contains the exact sender address, and is accepted only when that provider
adds a passing DKIM signature aligned with the sender's domain.
The normal board permissions still apply.
.PP
A read-only web view is available at
.UR https://salyut.one/bbs
.UE .
.SH GOVERNANCE
salyut.one is almost entirely community-governed.
Every user may submit, support, oppose, and vote on changes through the
.B Proposals
board.
Votes are authoritative: a proposal passes when votes in favour exceed half
of the votes cast for or against.
Abstentions do not count toward that comparison.
.PP
The operator may veto a proposal only when it would jeopardise security,
violate applicable law, exceed available resources, threaten availability,
act in bad faith, or transfer ownership or veto powers.
The full current policy is published at
.UR https://salyut.one/
.UE .
.SH SUPPORT
Ask other users on the BBS, or e-mail the operator at
.UR mailto:root@salyut.one
root@salyut.one
.UE .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR mesg (1),
.BR neomutt (1),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR write (1)
